# Changelog
Any changes made by **`Team 2P`** that make it into the `main` branch are logged here.

A changelog for commits and changes before this version will not be added.

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/),
and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## bruker_control.py v1.0.0 - 2021-09-13
This is v1.0! There's been several things added and several things changed after refactoring the code
for a few weeks. Check out the info below!

:heart: Jeremy Delahanty

Each section, if it has a block of text, also has a short `In summary` section in case it's TLDR.

### Added

#### _Arduino_
- Doc strings for functions in Arduino sketches
- Added ITI and tone specific DAQ outputs
- Catch trial functionality
- Automatic resetting of Arduino after experiment is finished
- Semantic versioning for sketches

#### _Prairie View_
- Project specific configurations for Prairie View recordings' data output
- Automated Z-plane acquisition for file naming (ie 20210913_MOUSEID_plane1_**-221.12**_...)
- Automated switching to `Resonant Galvo` mode in case user forgets to select it

#### _Python: bruker_control_
- Doc strings for every function
- More descriptive inline comments in functions
- Read the Docs technical documentation hosted ([found here!](bruker-control.readthedocs.io/en/latest/))
- Semantic versioning
- Exceptions for missing configurations and camera disconnects
- Enhanced configuration and customization for trial structure
- Catch trials added
- Writing out list of missing video frames to configuration file
- **(Optional)** Experimenter argument at command line
- **(Optional)** Automated parsing of Prairie View `.env` files for NWB specific microscope information
- **(Optional)** Automated writing of base NWB files to specific directory on the server for a project.

#### _Directory Structures_
Each team that interfaces with the Bruker system will have a folder on the server named `2p_template_configs`.
This will contain the template configuration file for the team's experiment runtime and, if desired, a project
specific configuration file that can be reused for building NWB files later on.
Another optional addition is if you would like to have your base files written to the server in automatically
generated locations appropriate for your subject's place in the experimental timeline.
For example, if you are recording from an animal for its baseline experiment, the system will correctly identify
the animal as being in the baseline stage, build a location on the server for that subject with the appropriate
names, and write a baseline file for you the moment the recording is finished. Given that the experimenter knows
precisely how many 2P recording sessions will be collected for a given subject, an appropriate automated solution
can be implemented for each new project or team.

In summary:
- **Required** Team specific template configuration directory that is hosted on the server
- **(Optional)** Subject metadata directory that is hosted on the server

#### _Metadata and Configuration Files_
Users can have subject specific and project specific metadata files added to their directories.
An optional addition is to have a set of metadata files for animals that contain NWB specific information.
This information includes the subject's ID, strain, date of birth, genotype, sex, and weight.
These could be used when generating NWB files later or, if desired, at runtime of the experiment.
These files are not part of the repository itself, but can be used with it. Examples of them are present
on the repository in the `configs` directory.

In summary:
- **Required** Project specific template
- **(Optional)** Subject specific metadata files
- **(Optional)** Project specific configuration files

#### _NWB Support_
As described above, if the user would like to build a base NWB file at the end of the recording, `bruker_control.py`
is now capable of doing so. Once the microscopy session is completed, the program will grab relevant metadata for
the subject and project from the files described above as well as parse the Prairie View `.env` file that is generated by
the recording. The program will then build a base NWB file for the subject's recording to which the recording's data
can be added to at a later time. These files are written directly to the server in the subject's appropriate experimental
location as described in the _`Directory Structures`_ section above.

In summary:
- If desired, a base NWB file can be generated once the experiment is finished and would be written to the subject's appropriate
directory on the server automatically.

### Changed
- CLI (Command Line Interface) has different arguments: `-t` for the team - formerly `-p` for project - as in `specialk`, `-i` for number of imaging planes,
`-s` for subject - formerly `-m` for mouse - ID, and `-e` for experimenter if using the NWB functionality.
- Arduino variables that were once called `noise` are now all changed to `tone` **EXCEPT** in the case of the `noise` boolean flag.
This cannot be changed to `tone` as tone is a protected name for the `tone()` function in Arduino's IDE.
- Changed Arduino sketch name for team `specialk` to be more specific for the team.
- Raw data is written to a `team` directory instead of a `studies` directory
- Raw Prairie View data is written into a folder with `_raw` appended to the end of it as in `YYYYMMDD_SUBJECTID_PLANE#_PLANELOCATION_raw`.
- README.md updated with (very basic) `bruker_control.py` procedure
- Stimulus presentation now overlaps the end of the tone by default 

### Removed
- Unused Arduino sketches and configuration files
- `Behavior only` and its associated functions have been deprecated and removed from the repository
- `Sucrose only` and its associated functions have been deprecated and removed from the repository
- The `behavior` directory for the raw data has been removed as Prairie View does not support having different
directories for placing the raw microscopy and voltage recording files.
